FILEFIX v6.81 - September 1, 1995
---------------------------------

FILEFIX is a utility that converts an executable file output by the ALN
linker (.COF or .ABS files) into separate files containing the raw data for
the TEXT and DATA sections of the program, and a symbol table containing the
symbol information for the program, and an RDBJAG script file for loading it
all into the ALPINE board of a Jaguar Development System.

FILEFIX also has an option for writing out ROM image files.  These files
are 2mb or 4mb in length and consist of the program's text segment and
data segment, with the rest of the file set to zero bytes.  There are
also some other new options.  See the information below.


Usage:
------
filefix [options] <filename>

<filename> =	A DRI or BSD/COFF format absolute-position executable file.
		A filename extension of .COF or .ABS is assumed if none is given.
		(i.e. "FILEFIX testprog\" will look for <testprog>, then
		<testprog.cof>, then <testprog.abs>, before giving up.

Options
-------

-q = Quiet mode, don't print information about executable file.

-r <romfile> = Create ROM image file named <romfile> from executable

-rs <romfile> = Same as -r, except also create DB script to load and run file.

-p = Pad ROM file with zero bytes to next 2mb boundary.
     (this must be used along with the -r or -rs switch)

-p4 = Same as -p, except pads to a 4mb boundary
      (this must be used along with the -r or -rs switch)

-z = Use $00 for padding value with "-p" and "-p4" options
     (default value to use for padding is $FF)

Examples:
---------
	filefix program

This example finds 'program', 'program.cof', or 'program.abs'
Creates program.txt, program.dta, program.db, and program.sym (if the
file is not a COFF-format file)

	filefix program.abs

Finds program.abs, creates same files as previous example.

	filefix -rs program.rom -p -q program

Finds 'program', 'program.cof', or 'program.abs.  Creates a ROM
image file named PROGRAM.ROM, pads the size to 2mb boundary, and
prints only minimal information to screen.



Some developers have wondered why FILEFIX is needed, since RDBJAG can read
.ABS & .COF files directly.  Perhaps the most important reason is that when
you want to build a Jaguar ROM or EPROM cartridge from your program, you need
access to the raw data that cooresponds to what will become the ROM image of
the cartridge.  While this can be done by loading the program into the Alpine
board and then writing it back out using the debugger, using FILEFIX is
easier and more convenient.  Another advantage is that FILEFIX also creates a
symbol file that has been sorted and had duplicates removed.  (This currently
works for Alcyon format executables only.)

When you send a program to Atari that may end up becoming a cartridge (like
an early version of a game), please use FILEFIX and send the resulting files
rather than sending an ABS file (or in addition to sending an ABS file).

Similar situation exists for CD-ROM code: You do not burn a *.COF
file or an *.abs file with all its symbols and addition informations on CD,
but the bare game code and data (compliant with the CD-ROM documentation).
Again you must use FILEFIX to extract the essential code out of your program
file(s).


CHANGES
-------

v6.81, September 1, 1995
------------------------
This version still checks to see if you are trying to create a ROM image
file from an executable that does not load into ROM space, but now displays
a warning message rather than an error.  This allows you to create binary
images of your code & data that you want to compress and/or put onto a
CD-ROM disc.


v6.80, March 17, 1995
---------------------
The "-z" command line option was added, and the default padding value
used when creating ROM image files was changed from $00 to $FF.

Also, this version checks to see if you are trying to create a ROM image
file from an executable that does not load into ROM space.  If so, an
error message is shown and no file is created.  If the source file executable
loads into ROM space, but doesn't execute from $802000, then a warning is
displayed, but the ROM image file is created anyway.



v6.75, March 6, 1995
--------------------
When creating ROM image files and padding them to a 2mb size boundary, the
previous version of FILEFIX would create a file that was exactly 2mb or 4mb
in size.  However, you really want it to be $2000 bytes smaller than that,
since a program starts executing at $802000, not $800000.  The new version
now creates files that are $2000 bytes smaller, just like you had typed
"write file.rom 802000[1fe000]" from the debugger.


Sept. 29, 1994
--------------
Filefix now supports a number of new command line options, primarily related
to the new capability of writing out ROM image files.  See the list of
command line switches for more information.



July 20, 1994
-------------
FILEFIX still does not output a .SYM symbol file when the source file is a
COFF-format executable, but this new version now adds a command to the output
script file to make the debugger load symbols from the original executable
file. This does not provide everything the separate .SYM file does, but it
should cover most situations. (The difference is that the symbol table in a
.SYM file is sorted and has had duplicate symbols deleted.)

Also, there was a bug in the PC version of FILEFIX which caused RDBJAG/WDB to
print an error message when you did a GETSYM command on one of the .SYM files
it created.  (The error message would be either "Out of Memory" or "This file
was created by a buggy version of FILEFIX".)  This has been fixed.


June 28, 1994
-------------
There was a bug fixed that would cause FILEFIX to create DTA and TXT files
that were zero bytes long if the data section and/or text section was empty,
rather than simply not creating the files in the first place.  As of this
version, when a section is empty the files are not created and the references
to them are left out of the debugger script file that is output.

The tools now use a default filename extension of .COF for BSD/COFF format
executables, and FILEFIX has been updated to support this.  Now FILEFIX will
first look for the filename exactly as specified on the commandline.  If that
file is not found, and no extension was specified, then it will try for
<filename>.COF and <filename>.ABS in that order.  If the filename specified
did have an extension, then an error message is displayed and the program
aborts with an error code.


May 13, 1994
------------                                                                           								
The FILEFIX utility has been updated to work with the new BSD/COFF file
format used by GCC, MADMAC, and ALN.  Please Note: when reading BSD/COFF
files, FILEFIX will not output a symbol file, and the RDBJAG script file it
outputs will not reference the symbol file.
